it's our model of capitalism and the
economic model that you and I did
business in and in fact continue to do
business in was built around what
probably Milton Friedman put more
succinctly and Adam Smith of course the
father of modern economics actually said
many many years ago the invisible hand
which is if you continue to operate in
your own self-interest you will do the
best good for society
now capitalism has done a lot of good
things and I talked about a lot of good
things that have happened but equally it
has not been able to meet up with some
of the challenges that we've seen in
society the model that at least I was
brought up in and a lot of us doing
business were brought up in was one
which talked about what I call the three
G's of growth growth that is consistent
quarter on quarter growth that is
comparative better than the other person
and growth that is profitable so you
continue to make more and more
shareholder value and I'm afraid this is
not going to be good enough and we have
to move from this 3G model to a model of
what I call the fourth G the G of growth
that is responsible and it is this that
has to become a very important part of
creating value of not just creating
economic value but creating social value
and companies that will thrive are those
that will actually embrace the fourth G
and the model of 4G is quite simple
companies cannot afford to be just
innocent bystanders in what's happening
around in society they have to begin to
play their role in terms of serving the
communities which actually sustain them
and we have to move to a model of an and
and model which is how do we make money
and do good
how do we make sure that we have a great
business but we also have a great
environment around us and that model is
all about doing well and doing good now
the question is easy said than done
but how do we actually get that done and
I do believe that the answer to that is
going to be leadership it is going to be
to redefine the new business models
which understand that the only license
to operate is to combine these things
and for that you need businesses that
can actually define their role in
society in terms of a much larger
purpose than the products and brands
that they sell and companies that
actually define a TrueNorth things that
are non-negotiable whether times are
good bad ugly doesn't matter there are
things that you stand for values and
purpose are going to be the two drivers
of software that is going to create the
companies of tomorrow and I'm going to
now shift really to talking a little bit
about my own experiences I joined the
Unilever in 1976 as a management
training in India and my first day of
work I walked in and my boss tells me do
you know why you're here I said I'm here
to sell a lot of soap and he said no
you're here to change lives you're here
to change lives you know I thought it
was rather facetious we're a company
that sells soap and soup what are we
doing about changing lives and it's then
I realized that simple acts like selling
a bar of soap can save more lives than
pharmaceutical companies I don't know
how many of you know that five million
children don't reach the age of five
because of simple infections that can be
prevented by an act of washing their
hands with soap we run the largest
hand-washing program in the world we are
running a program on hygiene and health
that now touches for half a billion
people it's not about selling soap there
is a larger purpose out there and brands
indeed can be at the forefront of social
change
and the reason for that is when two
billion people use your brand's tax the
amplifier small actions can make a big
difference
take another example I was walking
around in one of our villages in India
now those of you who've done this will
realize that this is no walk in the park
hmm
and we had this lady who is one of our
small distributors beautiful very very
modest her home and she was out there
dressed nicely her husband in the back
her mother-in-law behind an assistant
law behind her the social order was
changing because this lady is part of
our project Shakti that is actually
teaching women how to do small business
and how to carry the message of
nutrition and hygiene we have 60,000 of
such women now in India it's not about
selling so it's about making sure that
in the process of doing so you can
change people's lives small actions big
difference our rnd folks are not only
working to give us some fantastic
detergents but they are working to make
sure we use less water a product that
we've just launched recently one rinse
product that allows you to save water
every time you wash your clothes and if
we can convert all our users to using
this that's five hundred billion liters
of water by the way that's equivalent to
one month of water for a whole huge
continent so just think about it there
are small actions that can make a big
difference and I can go on and on our
food chain or brilliant products and I'm
sorry I'm giving your word from the
sponsors Kunal Hellman and all those
wonderful products we are committed to
making sure that all our agricultural
raw materials are sourced from
sustainable sources 100% sustainable
sources we were the first to say we are
going to buy all our palm oil from
sustainable sources I don't know how
many of you know that palm oil and not
buying it from sustainable sources can
create deforestation that is responsible
for 20% of the greenhouse gases in the
world we were the first to embrace that
and it's all because we market soap and
soup and the point I'm making here is
that companies like yours companies like
mine have to define a purpose which
embraces responsibility and understands
that we have to play our part in the
communities in which we operate we
introduced something called the Unilever
sustainable living plan which said our
purpose is to make sustainable living
commonplace and we're going to change
the lives of 1 billion people over 2020
now the question here is where do we go
from here and the answer to that is very
simple we're not gonna change the world
alone there are plenty of you and plenty
of us who understand this the question
is we need partnerships we need
coalition's and importantly we need that
leadership that will allow us to take
this from here and to be the change that
we want to see around us thank you very
much
[Applause]
[Music]